Hello everyone. How are you?
Good. Okay, amazing. Welcome to the last
workshop session of the day. I hope
you've all enjoyed the very first day of
code with Claude. Uh my name is Maya.
I'm a member of our applied AI team here
in Anthropic. Uh what that means is I
spend about half my time developing our
own first-party products and features,
and the other half of my time helping
customers develop their very own
products, features, agents on top of our
models.
Today, I'm here to talk to you about how
to build a proactive agent workflow with
Claude Code.
Um can I get a show of hands? Who has
used our routines feature inside of
Claude Code?
All right, some folks over here.
Awesome, awesome. Um that's what I'm
going to be talking about today.
Okay, so first off, a question for the
group here.
Who has tried to run Claude Code on a
cron?
Can I get a show of hands? Folks, put
your hands up high. Awesome, awesome. Um
now, keep your hands up if you've
enjoyed building all of that infra and
maintaining that job.
All right, we have one guy back there.
We have one guy. Thank you. Thank you
for your effort. Thank you for your
work. Um we felt similar pain internally
at Anthropic as we tried to develop uh
proactive agents uh that run on Claude
Code, uh and we decided to do something
about it.
So, we believe that coding agents
shouldn't wait for you to press enter to
get started.
Right now, Claude Code is a really
powerful coding tool,
but we want to take Claude Code and turn
it into a really powerful coding
teammate.
A teammate notices when something breaks
and does something about it.
Right now, a tool waits for you to enter
your prompt and actually press enter.
So, the goal of today's presentation is
to talk about how we have created this
feature called routines to take Claude
Code from a tool today
into the teammate of tomorrow.
So, today we'll be talking about four
things.
I'll go through some of the challenges
that you folks have felt building
proactive agents today.
I'll go through this new feature inside
of Claude Code called routines.
We'll go through a real example about
how we use routines internally at
Anthropic to automate documentation
creation.
And then finally, we'll talk about
applying routines to your own workflows.
So,
I want to talk first through the
challenges with building proactive
agents today.
We all know it's doable,
but I want to talk about what what's a
little bit cumbersome with this.
The first thing that's a little bit
difficult with building proactive agents
today is deciding where these agents
should run.
You probably don't want them running on
your local machine because if you close
your laptop or your laptop dies, your
agent session is done.
What that means is you'll need to manage
things like hosting, data persistence,
and authentication.
Basically, you'll need to build a whole
infra stack outside of your prompts,
which is doable, but it's a lot of work
and there's a lot of boilerplate code
there.
The next thing you'll need to do is
figure out when to actually kick off
these sessions and trigger these agents.
Again, you can build things and build on
top of cron, or you can do things like
uh post to endpoints that you have to
spin up. Um but again, there's there's a
lot of infra that you need to build
yourself here.
Finally, the challenge with building
proactive agents today is sometimes you
want to be a human in the loop, but
other times you want to be a human out
of the loop with these agents. Um right
now when you kick off a headless Cloud
Code session, it's often hard to figure
out what your agent is actually doing in
real time. There's no way to watch,
steer, bound, or even resume your agent
session. It's a It's difficult to do
that. Um so we wanted to address each of
these three issues
um and build routines. Routines is a
brand new feature inside of Cloud Code.
It's an automation where you can kick
off a remote Cloud Code session by only
defining the prompt, what repos you want
to connect it to,
what connectors it has available to work
with, and a trigger.
Cloud Code handles the rest.
So there were three kind of main things
we were thinking about as we went ahead
and developed this routines feature
inside of Cloud Code.
The first thing is that we wanted these
agents to be always available.
These agents, these routines run on
Cloud Code's managed infrastructure.
And what what's nice with that is that
we deal with the hosting, the session
state, and the connector all for you.
Nothing depends on your laptop being
opened,
and we deal uh with all of the Cloud
stuff for you, which I think is quite
nice.
The next thing is we want these agents
to be able to work proactively with
customizable triggers.
You might want to kick them off on a
time-based schedule, or you might want
to work uh event-based. Uh we have the
ability to work natively with GitHub
events, as well as your own custom
events that you can post to
um webhooks and endpoints
with the event payload as context.
Finally, and the last point that I think
is really nice is that these Claude Code
sessions that get get launched with
these routines are interactive and
steerable as if you were launching
Claude Code in the terminal.
Every routine is really just a Claude
Code session under the hood that you can
open, you can watch, follow up on,
steer, and resume um from web, CLI, and
desktop.
And so, I want to walk you guys through
a real use case that
uh we use here at Anthropic internally.
So, the question for us and for a member
of our engineering team is how can we
automate docs creation with routines?
So, just to add a little bit of data
behind this, weekly PRs for Claude Code
have gone up 200% since the beginning of
the new year.
This has been super awesome for our
Claude Code engineering team.
Um
their productivity is insane. This has
been really awesome for you folks
because you get new features inside of
Claude Code very, very quickly.
The one person that this has not been so
awesome for is the one engineer
responsible for maintaining our
documentation across Claude Code and the
agent SDK. And so, when routines
launched, she was a super big fan and
early adopter. And I want to walk you
through how she set up a couple routines
to help automate documentation creation
for Claude Code and our Claude agent
SDK.
So, on my side here, I have the terminal
open, and I encourage you all to open
your terminal and launch Claude Code.
And inside of the terminal here, I'm
able to type what we see on the screen
here, /schedule,
and actually type in something that
Sarah, our documentation uh queen, uh
has done to actually set up this
routine. So, she went and typed in once
a week, "Please review all the new
changes merged to main against our
documentation repo and create a PR to
update docs if you see any changes."
I encourage you folks to think right
now, what are some tasks that you do
every day that would help if they could
run on a schedule or if Claude code
could actually initiate these sessions
for you.
Um I encourage you to think about that.
After kicking this off inside of Claude
code, Claude comes back and prompts me
with a couple questions.
It might ask, "Hey Maya, what time every
week do you want me to actually kick
this off? Or once I create a PR, do you
want me to notify you in any way? Maybe
ping you on Slack?"
And once I answer these questions,
Claude actually goes ahead and creates a
routine
that we'll view in a little bit inside
of Claude code on the web.
But first, I want to walk through the
three main decisions you'll need to make
as you create any routine. The first
decision is you'll need to figure out
when your routine should trigger.
What's actually the event or is there a
certain cadence that you want this to
run?
The second decision is what context or
what information does Claude need to
have to actually be successful here?
Do you need access to certain docs or
does Claude need access to certain tools
to ping you?
Finally, the last thing to think about
is how do you actually steer Claude in
the session to keep it honest?
How do you guide Claude Claude to the
output that you want? And so, we'll dive
into each one of these and I'll talk
through how Sarah, a member
of our team, actually does this to
automate documentation creation.
So, the first one is the trigger.
When should this event actually run?
So, inside of routines, there's
basically two ways to do this.
You can have things kick off on a
schedule, on a time-based trigger.
For that earlier example I showed you,
uh this is how we do a weekly review of
differences between our source code for
Claude code as well as our documentation
repo.
You can also have routines kick off uh
on an event-based cadence. So, maybe
every time a release is cut, uh you can
diff the release branch against the docs
and see if there's any new features that
you'll need to spin up PRs for in our
documentation repo.
Or maybe your engineers actually
deploying uh changes and creating PRs
might tag their changes. Maybe this is
like a new feature. They could tag it
with a label that says need docs, and
you could actually kick off Claude code
sessions anytime one of these uh
labeled PRs get merged.
The next thing you'll need to think
about is context.
What does your agent actually need to
know to be successful?
Likely, you'll need to give it access to
either one or more code-based repos. So,
for this docs example, uh we need to
give Claude access to not only our
Claude code source code to figure out
what new changes exist there, but also
our docs repo, right? For Claude to
actually create uh new PRs there.
Next, you might want to provide
additional context to these sessions.
Uh maybe for this one example, I want
Claude to have access to all of our
existing marketing briefs. Maybe I want
Claude to use similar language and
verbiage that we use
uh in other marketing materials
externally at Anthropic. So, maybe all
of this lives inside of Google Drive,
and I'll want to give Claude access to
these files during the session, so I'll
hook up the drive connector.
Or maybe anytime Claude creates a PR,
um I'll actually want it to ping me on
Slack. Uh so I'll give it access to the
Slack connector.
It's important to think about this as
you're setting up the routine because
whatever context Claude has, that's uh
the ceiling of how successful Claude
will be.
Finally, the last thing to think about
here is steerability.
How do we actually ensure the quality um
of Claude's outputs?
There are a couple ways to do this.
Um
one thing that I think is quite
interesting is to actually invest in
agent-on-agent review.
If folks have actually designed
multi-agent systems here and have heard
of the generator uh critiquer pattern,
uh this is something that we've borrowed
here.
You can actually set up one routine to
go ahead and create uh docs PRs, and you
can set up another routine that maybe
triggers on that PR's creation, um to
actually go ahead and leave comments on
the PR before a human actually gets to
it.
Another option, we had emphasized it's
nice to have a human out of the loop,
but sometimes you actually do need to
monitor these Claude code sessions and
maybe nudge Claude in a different
direction.
What's really nice and what I'll show
you in a second is that you can actually
open Claude code on the web and you can
view what's happening inside of a live
session as if you would working with
Claude in the terminal.
You can ask it questions mid-session.
You can push it in another another
direction.
You You can also resume a past routine
or a past session and continue the
conversation.
Finally, the last thing we do and what I
think is quite obvious is that we verify
Claude's outputs.
For this documentation example, we
actually render the page that or the
documentation page that Claude has
changed and created, and we confirm
those outputs are what we expect.
And so now I'll jump back into that
initial routine that we've kicked off
here in this demo. Um and we'll jump to
the demo slides. Awesome. And so we can
see right now I'm in Claude.ai and I can
go over to this left side panel and
actually kick click on this uh code
button.
And I can jump into routines on this
left-hand side.
And I can actually click on this routine
that I had created earlier.
On the left-hand side here you can see
that it's connected to two repositories,
our uh mocked up Claude code source code
as well as our Claude code
documentation.
You can see that this runs every Monday
at 10:00 a.m. and it's connected to
GitHub as well as Slack.
These instructions here on the
right-hand slide side Claude generated
for me based on the initial prompt that
I pasted in and the questions that I
answered.
We can see here that
uh this is a a weekly documentation sync
uh for our Claude code fork.
And I can actually go ahead and click on
a session here.
And I can see that these initial
instructions are what uh gets pasted in
for the very beginning of this Claude
code session.
We can see that Claude has read these
instructions and started by looking at
the source code repository to see uh any
changes, any recent PRs that have been
merged, looked at our change log, and
compared that to what's inside of the
documentation repo.
We can see Claude's actually found some
changes here and gone ahead and opened a
PR for me.
This is one example where you can kick
off a routine on a schedule.
Now I want to show you another example
where we can actually kick off a routine
uh based on a GitHub event.
So here I've actually created a new
routine and I've already filled some of
this in.
I want to make another documentation
automation
routine.
And but this time I want this to
actually trigger every time I create a
new GitHub issue.
So I pasted in some instructions here
basically to investigate the issue that
this session triggers on.
Figure out if it's to a documentation
gap and then if it is and if you believe
that this is a gap,
go ahead, open a PR and actually ping me
in this channel.
So I've gone ahead and connected our
Claude code documentation repo as well
as our source code again and I want to
show you how I actually set up this
trigger.
Like I had mentioned before, there's two
different types of triggers, schedule
based and event based and within event
based triggers, we have native GitHub
events supported here as well as the
ability to trigger from your own code by
sending a post request.
So here I'll create a
GitHub event trigger and trigger on
issue opens anytime I open an issue
inside of this Claude code documentation
repo and I want this connected to Slack
so I can send me a ping anytime I make a
PR
as well as our GitHub NCP.
So I will go ahead and create this here
and now let's make sure that this is
working. So I have a new issue open here
that I'm about to create inside of our
Claude code docs repo.
So I happen to know that there are a few
few tools missing from docs in this new
version. So I'm going to go ahead and
actually create this.
So I can see here
that I've gone ahead and created that
and now let's refresh this page.
And we can can actually that a new run
has gotten picked up here.
We can see that these initial
instructions are the very first prompts.
Um and we can see that this additional
context from this issue were passed in
as well.
I happen to know that I actually already
have another PR open for this. So, let
me just guide Claude to stop this
session.
I've already made these changes.
And we can see here the ability to
actually steer Claude in real time after
routine gets kicked off.
Awesome.
Um now, let's come back and talk about
the different ways uh that we can use
routines to actually automate your
challenges as uh developers.
I want to talk through um
a couple ways that we could turn common
software engineering or developer
challenges into routines with Claude
Code.
The first one I want to talk through is
this deploy verifier. Um maybe you have
recently
uh
just deployed changes to an to a service
and you want to make sure that this
service is healthy and you shouldn't
roll back these changes.
I want to think about this uh in three
ways. First, what should my trigger be
here?
Second, what context is important to
provide to Claude in this routine? And
lastly, how do I plan to actually
interact or steer this routine to keep
Claude honest?
I happen to know that my CD pipeline can
post after every deploy.
So, this seems like a pretty good
trigger to actually kick off this
routine on.
I can actually post to this uh webhook
that we support inside of routines, and
this can actually kick off my Claude
Code session.
In terms of what context I think is
important to provide Claude here, I can
think of a couple things.
One, it's probably nice to give Claude
access to the source code for the
service that we reach it recently
deployed on.
Next, it's probably important to give
Claude access to monitoring tools. Maybe
that's DataDog, maybe that's Grafana. I
don't know what you folks use, but
um
likely helpful to give Claude access to
these uh monitoring tools.
And maybe if something goes down, I want
Claude to alert me. I want Claude to
ping me on Slack or send me an email, um
or maybe maybe even send me a text using
Twilio or something like that.
These are some of the connectors or the
tools that I would give Claude access to
inside of this session.
In terms of keeping Claude honest or
actually steering my session,
maybe I'd start by having Claude run an
investigation for me and giving me an
eventual no-go or no-go decision to
actually roll back this change.
I could jump into Claude code on the web
and actually view and read Claude's
analysis for this session.
Then maybe I can continue to work with
Claude if I actually think that this
should be rolled back and actually use
Claude to help me roll back a change.
Maybe eventually, as I watch Claude work
more and more and trust its decisions, I
can let Claude roll back the change
itself if, based on the monitoring
monitoring data it has access to,
uh if I deem that that's the right
decision.
There are other challenges, like maybe
you want to build an on-call
investigator, or maybe you're actually a
PM and your job is to go through uh a
lot a lot of issues inside of your
backlog. Maybe that's GitHub issues,
maybe that's posts inside of a Slack
channel, and maybe you want to kick off
a weekly job that actually reads through
all of these issues. Um maybe it's
kicked off on a time-based trigger, you
give it access to GitHub and Slack and
wherever your issues live, um and you
use Claude to actually help you
prioritize and maybe open PRs for the
most important issues.
Okay, my final takeaways here.
Uh
Proactive agents beat reactive agents.
We want Claude to go from a tool to a
teammate.
You can move from an agent that is
waiting for you to actually press enter
and create a PR to an agent that reacts
to problems and opens a PR itself.
We built routines so you don't have to
focus on maintaining all of this infra,
but instead you can actually concentrate
on your domain and process expertise.
This is what routines handle for you.
And finally, I encourage you to get
started with routines today.
You're a single  schedule
commands
inside of Claude code away from creating
your very first routine.
Awesome. Thanks so much.